Good morning.
Today, basically, as Brett said,
we're going to talk about how to get
data in and out of Final Cut Pro.
And really this discussion
focuses a lot on project data
formats and media data formats,
how to make everything tie together
so that you can actually not only
work with Final Cut Pro and Apple's
other professional applications,
but also build a set of tools that other
people in the industry will find useful
to actually get production done and do
things like high-end Hollywood films
and television production.
Certainly, and also various strategies
for extending sort of directly
Apple's professional applications.
We're going to talk a lot
about specific project formats
and media formats and again,
sort of what type of tools and
some examples of some things,
solutions you might actually
be able to build using these
things with your software.
I'd like to start off talking about
project data and sort of begin the
discussion with what is project data.
It's sort of used different
terms in the industry.
Avid will refer to things
like its compositions.
Final Cut Pro will get
projects and sequences.
If you go into a compositing application,
it might be a composite.
Or if you go into Shake,
it might be a Shake script.
And really what the key thing here is,
this is the data that your users or
our users spend the most time creating.
Certainly they'll capture media assets,
they'll get stills from
the Photoshop artists,
they'll get music from
their audio person.
But they'll spend the most time in
software aligning these elements,
putting them together, applying effects.
And so this is what everyone focuses on.
So in a certain perspective,
when you go out into the
industry and talk about putting
new tools in people's hands,
they get very emotional about this.
They're spending this time
creating this and they want to
make sure that they can keep it,
they can use it,
and that they can move it
around if they need to.
Of course,
since this is certainly the thing
that people spend the most time on,
it's also the most unique
between different applications.
And so it's traditionally
been very difficult.
There are some very basic formats that
have been around for a very long time.
More attempts in this direction have
been made in the last few years.
But it's not an easy process.
And certainly a lot of the work we've
been doing for the last year or two has
been to try and make this process easier.
So we begin talking about some of
the legacy formats that some of you
may or may not be familiar with.
And a lot of these formats were designed
like 15 to 20 years ago and originated
with a lot of hardware-based systems.
Things where you would have a project,
you would have your show
you're putting together,
and it would be, of all things,
a floppy disk.
Not quite back to paper-tape days,
but still pretty primitive.
One of the lowest common denominator here
is what a lot of people call batchless.
Really what a Batchless boils down to
is if I have a bunch of source footage,
like on a videotape,
I'm going to have someone,
the assistant editor,
maybe the DP for the day,
sit down with a tape deck and
basically shuttle through that
footage and write down the time,
the time codes,
of the particular pieces of media,
the particular clips that we're going
to want to use in our production.
Just indexed by time code.
When this moves off of pads
of paper in a digital realm,
it's really just a delimited text file.
So you'll have some time codes,
some name,
maybe an identifier for the source tape,
and it's just stored in a
plain text file on disk.
The users actually love this,
and if you talk to film editors
today or television editors,
they still use them all the time
because it's just a text file.
They can pull up TextEdit,
they can pull up Word,
they can pull up Microsoft Excel and
change these numbers,
and they're very comfortable
with that because they control
exactly what's in there.
And because it's a tabulated text file,
it's very easy to generate,
very easy to parse.
So pretty much any modern non-linear
editor at least in the prosumer and
professional space will support these.
But they're very limited.
Here's a very basic
example of a batch list.
And it's talking about before
just a tabulated text file with
a first line with a header with
all this information on it.
You see clip name, time code,
and real identification.
And sort of moving beyond just
identifying pieces of media
that one might work with,
you move to an EDL.
Again,
this is designed for hardware-based
systems of the past where you'd have a
huge bank of tape machines on one side,
a record deck on the other, and monitors,
and you sort of queue everything up so
that it would record at the same time.
And just basic edits,
sort of an event-based model with
times and effect identifiers.
Although it's limited,
sort of two tracks of video,
four tracks of audio,
a lot of this based on sort of
switcher technology of the day.
And sort of like batch lists,
a lot of users out in the field love
this stuff to this day because you
can open one up in a text editor,
and if you train your eye,
you know exactly what to look for.
So if I put together an
hour-long show and it's just
not going out to tape correctly,
I can open it up and fix it.
It's a bit more difficult than
a simple batch list to parse,
however,
because there's a lot of data in there,
and there's also a lot
of different formats.
Sort of everything started
with one or two de facto
standards about 20 years ago,
but now you've got maybe about a
dozen different sort of formats
for different manufacturers' gear,
different tweaks for different hardware,
and even different
effects processing gear.
Here's a very simple EDL,
and as you compare the batch list,
it's kind of frightening.
A lot of time codes there,
comments for effect IDs,
things like you compare a dissolve
with a D and a wipe with a W012.
Not very friendly to parse to understand.
So, sort of moving on,
Batchless and EDL sort of got
more contemporary formats.
And certainly 10 years ago,
beginning of the nonlinear
digital revolution with Avid,
everyone saw that these formats
really were lacking in a lot of ways.
And so more contemporary formats
were created to go in their place
and sort of address a lot of
capabilities of modern systems,
things like, well,
you can go beyond two layers of
video or you actually want to
get down to effect parameters.
You might want to be doing things like
throwing a Gaussian blur where you're
keyframing the amount of the blur over
time or doing that fuzz filter where
you're fuzzing someone's frame out.
But unfortunately,
due to when these--due to a
lot of these efforts started,
these formats were
generally binary formats.
So you'd have some structured
storage model and you would
encode all this in binary because
it was cheap and it was small.
But at this disadvantage of now
a user or even a power user or a
developer can't directly look at it.
So you introduce a lot
of library requirements.
And it's pretty complicated to generate.
So if you look at some examples
we'll talk about in a moment,
there will be sort of a small set of
tools out there to work with these files,
but really not a community of
large general tools to do things.
So the best known example of a
contemporary format would be OMF,
object media format from Avid,
created when they actually tried to
unify sort of audio and video products
about seven or eight years ago now.
It was based around some
Apple standards at the time,
OpenDoc and Bento.
And actually sort of
describes for two models.
So you have sort of what they
term a composition only OMF file,
basically just a
description of your edit,
your effects and the elements within,
versus a combined format
where you actually store your
media all in one container.
Really big file,
really hard to move around.
Of course at this point
it's more or less abandoned.
And part of that was Avid's move to
more of a cross-platform system and
some issues with basically bringing
Bento libraries on different platforms.
And really where it's used today a lot
is in audio post-production systems.
And that you'll have Pro Tools,
one of the most popular nonlinear
auto-editor audio systems.
And I think there are a lot of
popular nonlinear audio editors today
that actually still use that format.
Moving on to the next slide.
Moving forward from OMF,
in order to address this situation,
the Advanced Authoring Forum was
founded four or five years ago by a
consortium of companies including Avid,
Microsoft, and Adobe.
Basically,
they tried to take the lessons from
OMF and build a new format that still was
based around a binary container format,
this time Microsoft Structured Storage,
but actually have it more be
of an industry-standard format
so that you could take media
and projects between different
applications and different systems.
Unfortunately,
it was sort of a mixed success in
that while a lot of the basics,
a lot of the elements that would be
sort of the equivalent of an EDL made
it into the public specification,
a lot of things really didn't.
And those are all the really
interesting things today,
things like layering information,
compositing information,
filters and effects.
A lot of this is sort of termed as
black metadata by people using AAF and
where sort of one company will have
to find their own little black box
inside of this open specification
so you really can't get to it.
A lot of companies do support the
general version of the AAF standard,
Avid, Quantel,
and Apple actually joined the
Advanced Authoring Forum last
year and is working on AAF tools
using the efforts of AutomaticDoc.
Thank you.
So moving on to the future,
there's been a lot of movement,
especially with the open source
movement the last few years,
toward more open formats.
AAF and OMF are really interesting,
but because of a lot of the issues,
it's very difficult to join
the club of working with them.
It might be a lot of effort
to use binary formats,
there might be library issues
depending on the platform,
and the whole black metadata problem.
And sort of the key concept of a lot
of these formats has been open access,
fully documented data, everything open,
no real issues with data access.
And also trying sort of getting back
to the capabilities of batch lists and
EDLs where a technical user could open
one up and see what's inside of it,
and actually make changes,
or simply have some faith that
this project that they spent a
month creating will actually be
useful in another year if they move
their media to a different system.
And also of course trying to minimize
platform and library requirements.
And to address this,
we've actually come up with a format
we're calling XML Interchange Format,
working on it for the last two years.
And we introduced it,
announced it with Final Cut Pro 4,
just uses XML.
Everyone loves XML, it's easy to parse,
you can use it in pretty
much any platform.
And it's relatively self-documenting,
and there are a lot of
tools out there to use it.
And power users can open the thing up
in text editor or even a structured
XML editor and make changes to the data.
For our XML Interchange Format,
we've gone to a lot of effort
to sort of try and make it
a superset of all formats.
The goal is really to expose all of the
functionality inside of Final Cut Pro,
sort of no black data,
no weird undocumented little hooks,
and just open everything up.
And a lot of this was the
goal of trying to be able to
base other formats behind XML.
So working with Automatic Duck,
we have import and export support to AAF,
but going through XML in the middle.
Since XML is a superset of what's at
least publicly available in AAF today,
then it's relatively trivial
to do the translation and
bring that in Final Cut Pro.
The one issue that our XML format
does not address is the issue
of embedded media transport.
So the idea that I could
have one Mondo file,
which certainly is easier
to move around today than it
was seven or eight years ago,
but one container with my
media and my composition
information in sort of one box.
And we really didn't feel that that was
an important issue to address right now.
Certainly there are a lot of different
workflows that that model does not
necessarily meet everyone's needs.
And it also tends to
make the cross-platform,
cross-application issue
much more difficult.
Different hardware,
different software may have
different requirements for streaming
data or moving data around,
and trying to sort of encapsulate it in
one standard can be rather difficult.
Here's a very basic
example of an XML file.
It's similar to something that
would have been defined in the
Batch List example earlier.
As you can see, it's content-based,
so the various keys are things that if
one was familiar with an online editor,
they'd be familiar with: a clip,
or a name, or a duration.
And sort of multiple formats as well,
so if you look at timecode definition,
you sort of have both frame
count and frame rate along with
additional string defining that data.
Now, of course,
Apple's not alone in -- oh, excuse me.
There's actually one
slide that was missing.
Actually, at the moment,
what I'd like to do is invite
Harry Plate up to the stage to
show off tools that Automattic
Deck has been building with us to
support AAF inside of Final Cut Pro.
Very good.
Okay.
Thank you, David.
Okay, make sure we're looking
at the same story here.
First of all,
Automatic Duck came on the scene
here just a couple years ago.
My son and partner is a video editor
and got sick and tired of messing
around with EDLs as he would move
his sequences and compositions
from an Avid into After Effects,
and that was the product that we
initially started out developing.
What I've got here -- well, let's see,
in fact,
we want to delete that because I want
to import the Chrysler example.
Underneath literally the import menu,
you'll see a pick that allows us to bring
up a dialog that allows you to select.
In this case,
I'm going to grab a Chrysler
example and an AAF file.
Again, this was a short commercial piece
that was done a long time ago.
This process opens an AAF file,
parses it,
now goes off and searches for footage.
By the way, this footage now is
represented by OMF files.
This entire sequence being
created by an Avid Symphony.
I think it was about two years ago,
it's been one of our favorite
examples to test things.
So it's fairly straightforward.
We create an XML.
The XML now is being read by Final Cut.
And we should see a Chrysler example
now up here in that project window.
And we'll open that up.
And sure enough,
here's all that metadata.
We had a couple of audio clips.
Let's make this thing look
a little more... attractive.
We'll fit it, show you some more.
Some more information.
There's markers, dissolves, video, etc.
And this is something that when we
did this manually some years ago,
this took an editor four hours
to reconstruct in order to
get all of the time codes,
etc.
done correctly.
So fairly straightforward.
Again, you open an AAF file.
Through the magic of
Microsoft COM and a binary library,
you may or may not succeed
in getting everything.
But... It's a challenge.
You track down all the metadata.
You track down all the media.
You open up OMF files.
We reconstruct QuickTime reference
movies so that we don't move any video.
So the reference movies are very fast.
And then ultimately Final Cut is
able to import that.
And the entire description, of course,
is passed via XML.
Now...
The opposite case is
fairly straightforward.
I can take that same example and
I can turn around and export it.
We'll just drop that thing out
there and now we take that XML.
Well, let's see, we better replace that.
We don't want that one anymore.
Reconstruct an AAF file based
on that XML description.
Fairly straightforward.
In this case, it comes back and says,
"Hey, wait a minute.
You've got some effects there that we
can't represent in AAF." And that's fine.
Our documentation will fully tell
you exactly what you're doing wrong.
So let's see, I grabbed the wrong one,
but we don't need Internet Explorer.
But we do want After Effects.
And we'll find a site of After Effects as
soon as I close down that.
This is a simple import
process yet again.
And I can grab that Chrysler example,
import it.
And it's the same process now
in the Adobe After Effects world
where you open up this file,
parse it, grabbing all of the media
references as necessary,
using them directly in the case
from Final Cut because we already
have the QuickTime movies.
And we create a composition,
again just a different nomenclature,
no longer a sequence as
in the Final Cut world but
something slightly different.
Now, a timeline in the Final Cut world
is quite different.
They show layers each on a separate
horizontal row versus the timeline that
you might be used to inside a Final Cut.
But nonetheless,
people like to finish inside of
After Effects for a variety of reasons,
whether it be the effects,
the color correction, or whatever.
But again, I emphasize,
XML is under the covers.
And the ability now
to get into Final Cut,
of course,
we've had customers for a long time
crying for that kind of capability.
So it gives Final Cut now a tremendous
edge now in the complete workflow
of any post-production facility.
That's it.
Back to you.
Thank you, Harry.
It's a very powerful example
of these sorts of tools.
But sort of talk about maybe
what other people have done in
the industry surrounding XML,
because certainly it's not a new format.
It's not a new idea.
Actually, excuse me, wrong slide.
A little bit more detail on
our XML interchange format.
Sort of the big question that
we've gotten since NAB of this
year when we announced XML is
when will it be available?
Well, today we have a public beta
available on the WWDC site.
Simply go to
connect.apple.com and log in.
And it's an early build, but shows up,
gives you import and export
XML commands inside of Final Cut Pro.
Documentation there on the format.
Again, preliminary stuff.
We'll be updating it on a
regular basis until we hopefully
release it later this year.
And we're also basing a new
plugin API on this data format.
Certainly the commands that Harry was
able to use with his software
were written using this new API,
and we'll be getting that out
to you as soon as possible.
But more importantly,
sort of one thing that we've
done is we've been able to
do a lot of work on this.
One point to emphasize is we
really want your feedback.
We've been working on
this for a long time.
We've talked to a great deal of
people in the industry about that.
Another gentleman I'll actually bring up
here in a few minutes that has another
sort of compelling tool based on this.
But we really want to hear what you think
is missing or what can be done better,
or sort of what your needs are.
There may be various workflow scenarios
or various tools that you want to
build that we just haven't thought of.
And any of that feedback
is incredibly valuable.
And we will be releasing this in a
final form to end users and developers.
by the end of this year.
[Transcript missing]
Some strategies for your
application should you want to
play nicely doing data interchange.
Any form of data interchange you
can do is incredibly helpful.
Even if it's primitive,
just something that at least is
documented or maybe in a plain text form.
A lot of people in the post-production
community are very creative and amazed
at the amount of pain people will
endure to sort of have that safety
feeling of looking at their data.
And so certainly anything
you can do is good.
Conventional legacy formats,
if you can support them, that's great.
It can be a lot of work.
It can be a lot of debugging.
If you can't,
then we encourage you to at least look
at doing some more modern open formats.
And sort of allowing other people
to write translators in the same
way that Automatic Duck has.
Sort of opening that door gives you
more leverage without necessarily
spending a lot of engineering effort.
And certainly open formats are great.
They level the playing
field for everyone.
And in the end, everyone wins.
Developers sell more software and
users get the tools they need.
And it's a very good thing.
For Apple's professional applications,
Final Cut Pro 4 at present
has native support for EDLs,
Batchless,
and of course XML very shortly,
and OMF and AAF through
the automatic duckguys.
Shake-through,
which I want to mention for a moment,
is a little bit different story
in that at the moment there isn't
really an XML representation
or direct OMF or AAF support,
but their project file format is
at least sort of a plain text file.
ShakeScript is something
very similar to C or C++.
It sort of defines the
structure of a project.
And it's an example of something
that is rather technical,
but at least is in a form
where other tools can generate
and parse this information.
And that's one of,
sort of one of the details that has made
Shake incredibly popular and powerful in
the high-end post-production industry.
So I'd like to move on
to exchanging media.
And so we talked about sort of the
project composition data side of the
universe and sort of getting that
data that-- and you just spend a lot
of time creating move back and forth.
But media is also incredibly
important as well.
Why do you want to do it?
Well, there might be formats you don't
support in your application.
It may be that you
support still image files,
but you don't support movies.
Or you're based around video or audio,
but you really can't deal
with container formats.
By allowing users to import and
export data in different formats,
you just increase what's possible
and what users are able to do.
By exchanging data,
you can leverage things
in other applications.
You might have a wonderful
compositing engine,
but you really don't do 3D animation.
If you can import and export data,
then you can bring in 3D animation from
some other application and work with it.
Hardware support is an interesting one,
in that hardware support,
sort of the ability to output to decks
or capture video from a deck or a camera,
isn't always the easiest thing
to do and can be a lot of effort,
and yet users need it.
If you can import and export media,
then you can leverage someone
else's software to do that for you.
And finally,
in a real production environment,
certainly there are some tools that
will fit the entire bill for production,
but most times there really isn't.
A lot of high-end facilities
like to pick and choose between
different tools for different uses.
And by exchanging media cleanly,
you allow yourself to be inserted
as part of that pipeline.
And there are a few other
details that you need to think
about to make that practical,
and we'll get to those in a few moments.
Some of the additional
difficulties had in sharing media:
lack of public format.
Certainly there are a lot of formats,
but when you move into the
higher end of the spectrum,
you get some more private things.
You get codecs that,
the details aren't necessarily there.
Certainly you can get a piece
of code compiled for one CPU,
but not for another.
And some formats are more
difficult to work in than others.
An example of OMF and AAF,
you basically have to wrestle with what
libraries to compile and build and load
to use that data on different platforms.
There's also a big issue which isn't
always necessarily considered is
quality and conversion when transcoding
media between different formats.
The computer world, RGB is great.
That's pretty much what we all use.
When you move up into
the high end film market,
you've got sort of nonlinear,
high bit depth RGB.
But when you're in the
general production market,
you've got YUV video to deal with.
Conversions to basically
YUV to RGB and back again,
you lose color.
Because there isn't complete
overlap in the spectrum there.
And that can be an issue
in some circumstances.
Traditionally it's been
identified as an issue for sort
of the broadcast online market.
They're a little bit more
open to that these days,
but it's still a problem,
especially when you move up
into the high definition market.
And licensing issues.
Certainly if you have,
you may have this wonderful codec
and there may be some source
code floating around the web,
but you can't really use it
because of licensing issues.
And so.
Sort of by supporting more open formats,
you can help to get around that by
at least getting a format that will
go into another tool that maybe does
have a licensing situation worked out.
Just sort of some common formats
everyone's familiar with.
You've got all the still formats
that have been around for a while,
for the most part open.
Of course,
they aren't really that great for video.
A lot of people early on sort
of took those still formats
and just numbered them,
put them in a folder,
and played them back.
And that can be rather CPU-intensive,
and certainly there are a lot of Unix
workstations that that's just the
best way to deal with it because you
can get to any frame really quickly,
but it's kind of a pain to move around.
Certainly QuickTime is a great
container format for just stringing
together a lot of video images.
You can do it uncompressed,
do it in various codecs.
In fact, we actually have a lot of
sort of open codecs at Apple.
In Final Cut Pro 4,
we introduced some new open
uncompressed codecs for 8- and
10-bit video where the details,
sort of the bits,
are completely documented for free.
Of course,
we have our own codec implementation,
but should you be on another platform
or another piece of software and
you can't actually use QuickTime,
all the details are there so that you
can parse those out and use those.
And certainly we have Microsoft formats,
AVI, and Windows Media,
traditionally more used in the
delivery space than the editing space,
although certainly some
low-end tools make use of them.
OMF and AAF, again,
dual designs sort of for media
container and composition container,
so you can embed data in there.
Cineon/DPX is a format that Kodak
came up with about a half-dozen
years ago for the film industry
for sort of high-resolution,
high-bit depth, nonlinear RGB images.
Details for that are out there.
You have to dig to find them.
But a lot of high-end tools like to
use those frames for sort of final
finished film renders and effects work.
And of course, MPEG-2,
just pure element streams you might spit
out of Compressor or DVD Studio Pro.
Not really used, sort of,
there's some movement toward using
MPEG-2 in the editorial space,
more for iframe only,
basically in-frame edits or files,
as opposed to the long-op stuff,
traditionally used for broadcast,
but still a lot of that stuff out there.
Again, really quick,
some common audio formats, AAF and WAV,
uncompressed, everyone knows them,
more or less the same
except the bits are flipped.
SD-2,
and I actually bring this up because
it's an interesting example of
sort of a partially public format.
Certainly there are a lot of
tools out there to read SD-2,
it's not a hard format
to reverse engineer.
Unfortunately,
this is one of those licensed
formats that I mentioned earlier,
where you can't exactly create
a product that will write SD-2
files without a license from Avid,
actually.
It's interesting in that Pro Tools in
the past has made very heavy use of SD-2.
It makes it a little bit interesting
to get data into Pro Tools sometimes,
but just sort of be aware.
Of course, QuickTime, Windows Media,
OMF and AAF,
containers for audio formats as well.
And of course, there are a lot of popular
compressed formats now,
MP3 and AAC, more for delivery,
but we tend to see a lot of these
in post just because someone gets
a track that that's the only format
they have and need to bring that in.
Talk about MUX formats for a moment.
Formats where basically
you have audio and video,
potentially ancillary data,
combined together.
Very handy container you
can just move around,
something you can just
open up and play back.
Of course QuickTime's great for this.
You can put pretty much anything
you want in a QuickTime movie.
Of course when you get to
applications like Final Cut Pro,
there are some conventions
that you have to observe,
things like timings, video times, etc.
AVI, Windows Media,
again more delivery formats,
but they do support MUX data.
OMF and AAF as well can support this.
MXF is something that's interesting
to mention in that it's a format
that Sony has been working on for
the last few years with SMPTE.
And MXF has actually been designed
as a subset of AAF with the goal of
creating a MUX data format that hardware
devices could implement cheaply.
So that you might have a camera
that's recording direct to disk.
And you need some format to
describe that data and interleave
it together in a completely,
ideally,
platform and software independent manner.
You can get the specs
for that through SMPTE.
It's starting to gain momentum with
some new devices that have been coming
out that have been announced this year.
Still sort of ramping up.
Interesting to see how common that
becomes and sort of if it scales
from the low bitrate compressed
formats up into uncompressed.
And just for completeness,
MPEG-2 transport streams that
you might get off of an antenna.
For HDTV or program streams
that you might have on a DVD.
I also want to talk about
metadata for a minute.
We've been talking
about sort of the core,
audio and video data,
the bits that represent the things that
you listen to and you see on the screen.
But metadata is actually really
important and becoming a lot
more important as time rolls on.
So if I've gone out into the field
and shot 40 hours of footage,
I need some way to identify that footage.
Certainly by simply being
on a tape-based device,
there's time code.
But when that media is brought
into the digital realm or brought
onto a computer hard drive,
there needs to be some way to
track it other than the file name.
And this is really
where metadata comes in.
Traditionally,
pretty much any non-linear editing
system has tracked time code.
So basically you can embed a set of
numbers in a media file that track
where that came from on a tape.
And you may attach that with a
source tape identifier as well.
Traditionally, it's been stored in pretty
strange locations just because
it's really been an afterthought.
It's remixed formats together.
It's great.
It's playing back.
Wait a minute.
Where are we going to put time code?
Fortunately, with QuickTime being a
very general architecture,
it's actually easy to drop time code
in a logical location for a change
and even put other information in.
You can utilize things like text
tracks and user data bits just to
drop data into a file and at least
be confident that it's writing
consistently with that media on disk.
And that's the way if you go
into a professional environment,
it's required.
They need it there.
So it's very important to be
able to read and process that.
And it's just becoming more important
as the amount of media grows,
as sort of multi-user systems grow.
The value of having that data
is just all the more important.
So just some quick strategies on
things that you can do to support to
deal with media interchange correctly.
You want to support as many
media formats as possible.
That might involve using a rich
media engine like QuickTime to
do the translation for you.
It's quite handy.
Certainly there are other
options out there as well.
When you're processing media or
importing it into your system,
you really need to try and keep it as
close to the native format as possible.
Sort of the biggest thing that
I get is YUV to RGB conversion.
The reds will get weird,
the color will get muddied
if you don't do it right.
And that's kind of a big deal if
the native acquisition device is
YUV and the output device is YUV,
but in the middle you're
going through RGB.
So if at all possible,
you need to try and keep that in mind.
Audio is another situation
where if you've got a 24-bit
audio recorder out in the field,
you want that audio to stay
24-bit when it gets to the audio
post house at the very end.
And again, metadata.
At the very least, pass it through.
Ideally access it and
display it and edit it.
But if nothing else,
if the data simply passes
through your system cleanly,
then your users are going to love it.
Apple's applications,
certainly QuickTime.
We love QuickTime.
It's pretty much our
universal container format.
We use QuickTime as a translation
conduit for other formats.
We have a lot of great codecs.
I mentioned earlier the uncompressed
codecs we can use with Final Cut Pro 4,
the pixel codec announced
here at the show,
and traditional things like
animation and CinePack and Sorenson.
And time code and metadata.
We do currently Final Cut Pro 4
supports multiple time code
tracks and QuickTime files,
multiple tape source identifiers.
And as time goes on,
we're going to be expanding that.
We're going to have more support
for metadata and not less,
just because it's come up so often
from all of our pro customers.
And we also now have support for
24-bit 96 kilohertz audio along with
multi-channel audio in Final Cut Pro 4.
That all comes in at the
moment through AFF files.
The number of formats we
bring in will be extended.
expanded as time goes on.
So we sort of talked about project
exchange and media exchange,
and I sort of want to bring them together
and sort of plant some ideas out there
for how you might make use of these.
It's not always obvious if you're not
in a post house or at a film studio
sort of what the opportunities are
to sort of enhance and extend things,
and sort of where new and unique
applications and small tools
might fit into the picture.
So one of the biggest things,
one of the biggest requests
we get now from post houses is
sort of media asset management,
where a post house is only sort of
getting more work as time goes on.
They may have six projects going at once,
and to have sort of project data and
media scattered across 40 different
machines is really kind of a pain.
It's a pain for backup.
It's a pain for tracking.
And it's just a pain for workflow,
and that one machine might
be locked on a project.
And sort of by building
a central archive,
you've got one place where you
can collect and track things.
And you can do things like track the
revisions of a particular element.
You might have something
you shoot on video.
It comes in.
It's captured.
Great,
you've got revision one of this element.
Now it needs to be color corrected.
Then it needs to have maybe
some effects applied to it.
Maybe it needs to have a lower
third title applied to it.
Sort of almost do versioning
like we're used to in CVS,
but with media elements,
so that if something goes
horribly wrong in the process,
you're not going back to the
original tape to bring the
thing in and run it through.
You can actually go back to maybe step
number three where the issue came in.
Review approval loop is very important.
Sort of the concept.
Traditionally, if working on a show,
I'd have to get approval
from an executive,
approval from a client.
I'd have to take the project,
dump it out to VHS,
give the VHS to a courier,
send it across town,
have them look at it,
send something back, give it a call.
Having sort of automated or at least
electronic review loops is incredibly,
incredibly handy.
So certainly you could send an
email to the client and say,
"Hey, the spot's up.
Take a look at it.
Log into a URL.
Look on a web page.
Play it back.
Make some notes." And sort of cutting the
time all of that review processes take.
And also,
come back to sort of central location,
backups, and even just status,
looking at a project,
seeing what elements are completed,
what elements are left to be done.
And it only sort of primes things for
multi-user products in the future.
This is interesting where there are
products in the marketplace that many
people today consider to be multi-user,
but really are just sort of media
sharing and sort of the idea of having
sort of direct clients and direct
collaborative workflow where two people
might be working on the same sequence
at the same time is something that's not
necessarily around today but is coming.
And when it gets here,
it's going to take the market by storm.
And by encouraging this
infrastructure and building tools
that tie into this infrastructure,
it's only going to make this easier.
Another very powerful example of this
will be linking specialized applications.
No one piece of software does everything,
and it's not really even possible.
There are things that might be
specialized to one particular company,
things that might be specialized
to one particular market segment.
And it makes sense in circumstances
to use specialized software for
specialized tasks and then be
able to bring data back and forth.
And it also makes use
of different skill sets.
You might have people who
are less technical who just
need to organize something,
and people who are more technical who
are going to finesse things and give
it that final polish that it needs.
And even down to allowing for
low-end hardware at one phase,
high-end hardware at another,
or even going to really dumb
hardware at some point just for
an executive to view something.
And at this point,
I'd actually like to ask
Michael Johnson to come up and give a
demo of an example of sort of linking
specialized applications using
XML and media exchange technology.
Hey folks,
so this is a little tool that we
wrote last year and we've actually
continued to work on it and it's one of
these things where we heard about the
XML stuff that the Final Cut Pro folks
were doing a little while ago,
but then they have a product
to get out and so you're like,
"Oh, that sounds really great.
We're looking forward to that.
We'll be very excited when that
comes along." And so they got us some
stuff a few months ago and we looked
at it and gave them some comments,
but really weren't using it or anything.
And then last week they
stopped by and said,
"Well, you know,
we're going to have this talk there.
We'd like to do that thing
and we'll get you that spec,
that code that'll let you read the
XML stuff in your Final Cut thing
there." And we had some,
you know,
little kind of going back and forth
on that and I think I actually
got the thing from David,
I guess it was about 45 minutes ago.
Yeah, so we actually did it over there
in the session in the back there.
We actually said, "Oh look,
it actually works." So I'm
actually here more as,
you know, as a developer,
as a sort of a fellow
developer here and just
When you do things like this,
when you deal with custom tools,
it's so nice when it's a file format.
Because we deal with
OMF and things like that,
and OMF is just like, you know,
it's just this thing.
It's just this blob of stuff,
and there's all these libraries,
and you have to compile them,
and you have to go get them.
And yes,
you have the source code for them,
but then, oh, you've got a new compiler,
and oh, we've got a link against that.
Oh, no, is this C++?
Oh, yeah, okay,
we've got a link against that.
Oh, no, recompile that part.
You know, this is like, it's a spec.
It's a file format.
It's text.
And what's also fun with it is that, so,
David and the Final Cut folks,
they're at Apple,
and so they have all these
people who know all sorts
of stuff about programming,
like all the core foundation
things and stuff like that.
And, you know, I'm an old Unix,
Next Step, Packer guy.
I don't really know
from core foundations.
So if it's not Cocoa,
I'm really kind of at a loss.
But so, it's XML.
So I just, you know, go out in the net,
and I get XPAT, you know.
And that actually, that's for parsing it,
but just for this little thing here.
So this is, let me just show you this.
You know, we've got this simple
little program here,
which just lets you go and, you know,
time things out for your whole, you know.
You know, we're good on that.
And then if we actually
want to--let's see,
put it out there.
It's in my debug menu.
I got the idea from Safari.
And so let's see.
So if we just say--let's call it demo.
And then--so all I'm doing there is
writing out strings and then telling
the NSString to write itself out.
So I got me a little XML file there.
And let's go and say import XML.
And,
uh... let's just see... that looks good,
yeah.
Uh-huh.
And...
So now we've got that and
it's got our timing on there.
And now actually there's one
really neat thing about this which
is not at all obvious to this,
which is that this is actually
going out and those are
actually film res storyboards.
And so that's actually a really nice
thing about stuff like Final Cut is
I just spec'd in the XML thing.
I said, "Oh, well,
I'm going to give you some media and
it's actually this big." Even though the
media is actually like two megapixels,
I actually just do it as a you know,
whatever it is, 720 by 540 or something.
And it just deals with it.
It's just good.
And so let's actually just go look at the
Let's go look at what
that looks like here,
because there's a couple of interesting
things in terms of -- let's see,
how big do we have to make that?
You can actually read that.
So this is what we wrote out,
and it's just -- it's just text, right?
And I'm one of those,
you know -- and you don't have to, like,
have all the intention
or anything like that,
but I'm one of those people who,
when you write the code,
you might as well make
it so that it's readable,
because unfortunately,
David is completely correct
in that text file formats,
you know, will be edited by power users.
Sadly enough, you know,
we tool makers like to say, "No,
we'll give you a really nice way
to just -- don't open the file.
Don't edit it directly."
But -- and again,
this is where the whole file format
versus the 17 libraries that you have
to link against is a great thing,
because in a production environment,
in a real production environment,
you have all sorts of people who,
you know, you cannot keep them to
the purity of your code.
You know, you want to write in C or C++.
Or Objective-C or whatever
your particular thing is.
Well, too bad.
You know, they have a cartoon to make.
And so if they need to
write a Perl script that's
going to go over this thing,
grovel this thing,
move this thing into here,
or they've got to write some
Python that's going to do this,
or some C shell, or an Apple script,
or a whatever, you know, God bless them.
They have work to do.
And so this is actually
what's really neat.
And let me -- I just want to
point out one thing that's really,
really neat in here.
And I don't know if
this is actually true,
but I will take some credit in
giving them the -- saying at least
that this was a really good idea,
which is this little guy here,
the path URL,
which what that means is what
-- in this XML file format,
your media, it's a URL.
And I'm pretty sure that, you know,
like the Final Cut, the version of this
as it's going in here,
it's -- it really wants, you know,
file URLs.
But from our perspective,
we write custom things that
are in this file format.
And, you know,
we might have a web server in
the way of that media there,
and it's going to serve up
that piece of media to you.
And because it's a URL, you know,
if you're writing custom things
that's using this file format,
you know, you're all good.
You know, you can just put an arbitrary
URL in the way there.
And if you want to have your
version control system in there,
if you want to auto-generate
that piece of information,
you know,
there's all sorts of interesting
things you could do with that.
And like I said, the format is really,
really simple.
You can just go to the file format,
and you can just go to the file format,
and you can just go to the file format.
And it's really simple.
And for parsing this stuff, I used XPAT.
Nice thing with XPAT is it's out there,
and sort of most languages
have sort of access to that.
It's just this very simple C library.
And XML is just -- I mean,
it's not a very complicated thing.
It's
[Transcript missing]
So sort of one final example
I'd like to talk about today.
Sort of the concept of
production pipeline.
And this is not so much an editorial,
so much as actual final rendering
and production where you're trying
to take a series of disparate tools
to get a certain look for something.
Earlier I mentioned the concept that
there may be one application that does
a blur really well and one application
that does a composite really well.
You just want to smash them together.
And a lot of people do
production pipelines this way.
They may render and shake.
They may pull it into After Effects.
They may output it using Compressor.
And sort of allowing tools to
be hooked into that pipeline
is incredibly compelling.
And part of this is project files.
XML is great.
Certainly you can endure
the pain of OMF and AEF.
I don't recommend it.
But if at least you can sort
of concept something to drive
your software from the outside,
that's sort of the beginning of it.
And then, of course,
we move on to media interchange.
And trying to bring media through a
system without loss in quality or at
the very least known loss of quality.
It may be that you have a tool that
doesn't make sense to work in YUV,
but if at least sort of you can
document what the effects of it are,
that's going to make someone more willing
to give it a shot and see what it is.
And scriptability is great.
At the very least,
just dropping something
on and having it go.
But technologies like
Apple Script are very useful.
They're very interesting
to implement at times,
but they're incredibly useful.
And try and summarize things.
Project data interchange, import, export,
wonderful thing.
Open formats, wonderful thing.
If you can move data
through an application,
actually, and something I sort of
mentioned a moment ago,
if you can move data in
and out of an application,
it's actually going to make it
easier to be adopted than harder.
One of the challenges we've
had on Final Cut Pro has
been convincing people that,
you know, that $200,000 thing you
bought three years ago,
it's really not all that.
You need to try this PowerBook.
And their response is, well,
that's great,
but that thing in the corner,
I know what it does,
and I know I can count on it,
and I'm just really nervous about
bringing my project into it and
not being able to get it out again.
If they know that you can
bring data in and out,
they're a lot more willing to try it.
They're a lot more
willing to throw it in.
And if it's great,
they're a lot more willing
to adopt it because they sort
of have that safety layer.
Media interchange.
Again, just like project data,
if you can pull data
through an application,
know what the results are,
it's just going to make
people more willing to try it.
And combining the unique abilities of
your application with which others just
makes it all that much more powerful.
And this is not strictly
data interchange,
but we alluded to it a few minutes ago.
Extensibility and scriptability
is very important,
both sort of in workflow systems
and in production pipeline systems.
If you can very basically control how
something--sort of spawn something,
spawn a process to go
do a render via script,
via just an import file with
some extra commands in it,
it just makes the whole process easier
and makes it possible in some cases.
And scripting is great because if
you have those wacky power users out
there who are just bitching because
you haven't written that one tool to
do the special clip move that they've
been demanding for three years,
if they can script it,
then they can just go off
and write it themselves.
And a couple strategies
against the same messages.
Open project media formats are great.
Scriptability is great if
you're doing an application.
If you're writing a little tool,
you want to hook into
that data flow somehow.
You might write an integrated plugin.
You might write just a small application
that takes the output of one app
and converts it to another just like
the automatic duck guys have done.
And if you can integrate
tools into an application,
it's very compelling.
I mentioned a little while ago
that sort of based around XML,
we have a new plugin API coming soon.
And we'll actually be
discussing that on Friday.
And being able to sort of like
the automatic duck guys have done,
being able to insert a tool directly
into the UI of a larger application
like Final Cut Pro or Shake or something
else just makes it easier for users
who may be very artistically talented
but not technically talented to get
their head around something and use it.
Our direction for professional
applications is we like open formats.
The whole concept is
there's an ecosystem.
There are tools of varying
sizes and the users don't really
care where they come from,
they just need them to work.
Open data formats allows everyone to play
and everyone to talk in the same space.
We like QuickTime a lot.
We're pushing for
QuickTime to provide open,
high-quality data interchange methods.
So new codecs like our
uncompressed codecs and Pixlet.
Basically trying to set the
Mac up such that if you're doing
high-quality video processing,
it's just easy because you don't have
to deal with things like file I/O and
gamma conversion and hardware output.
The pieces are there for you to
build into your applications.
Extensibility,
extending application through plugins,
through scripts, etc.
That just makes it all the
more powerful because then
power users can do their thing,
tool developers can use their things.
In the end, there's just a much more
compelling solution.
And finally, as mentioned earlier,
we really want your feedback.
Anything you feel we're doing right,
we're doing wrong,
tools we may not have thought of,
things that you're trying to
do with Final Cut Pro or other
applications that you just can't do,
we really want to hear about that so that
we can adjust our direction accordingly
to try and address your needs and sort
of make this space just a lot better.
And let's see,
one other session we had this
week you might be interested in,
we actually had a session on
Friday talking about all the
different plugin APIs of the
Apple Pro Application Support-- Shake,
Final Cut Pro, Logic, Soundtrack.
That's on Friday at 3:30.
Also be going into--also be
giving some initial details on
the plugin API we're hoping to
wrap XML around later this year.
If you need to contact people,
first person's really Jeff Lowe,
he's the evangelist at Apple for
Pro Video Applications.
He's an excellent starting point,
he'll vector you off to whoever you
need to get your question answered.
If you have questions on
Final Cut Pro Data Interchange,
feel free to email me and I'll get
back to you as soon as I can and again
vector you off to the right person if
I don't have the answer to your question.